# Thesis

This repo contains all Source Code and relevant documentation created during the writting of my Diploma Thesis at the School of Mechanical Engineering of NTUA.
URI : https://dspace.lib.ntua.gr/xmlui/handle/123456789/61433

## Abstract :
The subject of this Thesis is the development of a sensor arrangement/measuring device for detecting cracks and defects on the surface of metallic specimens – specifically metal sheets and plates – utilizing the Direct Current Potential Drop Method. The fields of electromagnetism and fracture mechanics are thoroughly elaborated on, so as to construct an analytical model of the DCPD Method. Due to the mathematical complexity of the analytical solutions of Maxwell’s Equations in all cases but the trivial ones – such as the infinite rectangular plate – use of the Finite Difference Method (FMD) is required. Having modeled the relevant equations using the FDM, a computational software is developed, using C++ and Python. The inhouse code is then checked against the results of ANSYS MAXWELL, a well-known computational software for solving both steady-state and transient electromagnetism problems. The results of both computational software and in-house code are finally checked against experimental results from a testing rig, developed and constructed in the scope of this Thesis. Finally, the design of a full sensing array – capable of scanning the entirety of a flat sheet’s surface – as well as the algorithm for crack detection in such a case are described and analyzed.
